UNCERTAINTY QUANTIFICATION USING THE RANDOM EFFECTS HIERARCHICAL BAYESIAN INFERENTIAL FRAMEWORK

This code is to be run in MATLAB. 
MCMC.m found in VPSC_MCMC_no_discrepancy/MCMC/ is the main program file

This uses a random effects hierarchical model for inference and prediction in the phenomenological VPSC model 
\cite
Tomé, C. N., and R. A. Lebensohn. 
"Manual for Code visco-plastic self-consistent (vpsc)." 
Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico, USA (2009).

Inference is performed on unknown components of the data generation process
(model parameters, observation error, sample-to-sample variance etc.),
and used to estimated the uncertainty in their true values:

Unknown parameters in the statistical model:
Voce hardening parameters (thetas)
Random effects precision matrix (Lambda)
Observation error precision (delta)

Here, we make the assumption the observation error is i.i.d

MCMC simulations are state of the art for sampling from the posterior distribution of interest.
The Voce hardening parmeters (thetas) are sampled in a Metropolis-Hastings step and both precisions (Lambda and delta)
are sampled from full-conditionals in Gibbs steps

The optimal proposal covariance matrices are found through an adaptation based on the covariance of the 
accepted parameters, the acceptance rates and the target acceptance rates

Parameters are proposed and accepted/rejected in blocks, where each block consists of the model parameters
for each random effect

Observations of the state were generated with the physics-based elasto-viscoplastic FFT model. This data
was simulated to mimic a worst-case scenario for sample-to-sample variability.

\cite
Zhao, Pengyang, et al.
"An integrated full-field model of concurrent plastic deformation and microstructure evolution: 
application to 3D simulation of dynamic recrystallization in polycrystalline copper." 
International Journal of Plasticity 80 (2016): 38-55.

\cite
Lebensohn, R.A., Kanjarla, A.K., Eisenlohr, P., 2012.
An elasto-viscoplastic formulation based on fast Fourier transforms for the prediction of micromechanical
fields in polycrystalline materials. Int. J. Plast. 32, 59e69.

Only the plastic region was used in the calibration of the VPSC model. 
This allows us to make the reasonable assumption that the model
is correct and model discrepancy is not included in this simulation

Results of this MCMC simulation are published in,
\cite
Ricciardi, Denielle E., Oksana A. Chkrebtii, and Stephen R. Niezgoda. 
"Uncertainty Quantification for Parameter Estimation and Response Prediction." 
Integrating Materials and Manufacturing Innovation 8.3 (2019): 273-293.

